ketcher-autotests/README.md, before:

## Prerequisites

1. You should have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed on your machine. Download LTS (long-term support) release compatible with your OS.
2. You should have an IDE (eg. [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)) and its [extension for Playwright](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright) for convenience of running and debugging tests.
3. You should have [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed. Choose a proper instruction for your OS. You can use VSCode as a Git client or install another for convenience (eg. [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/), [GitExtensions](http://gitextensions.github.io/), etc.)
4. Generate an SSH key pair and add it to your GitLab profile, see [how to generate SSH](https://git.epam.com/help/user/ssh.md)

Now you're ready to clone the repository :tada:

## Cloning project and install dependencies

1. Go to a folder on your machine that you will use as your working directory.
2. Clone repository to your working directory using this guide [how to clone Git repo](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/#clone-and-open-in-visual-studio-code)
3. Open a terminal, go to your working directory and run `npm install`. This will install the dependencies from `package.json` file.
4. Possible you may need install browsers (f.ex. `npx playwright install chromium`)

# Add environment variables to your .env file

In order to run tests across different environments you need to create .env file.

You can use next command to create .env : `cp .env.example .env`
Or you can create it by hand and paste environment variables that are described in this PR [Environment variables] (https://git.epam.com/epm-lsop/ketcher-autotests/-/merge_requests/10)

## Scripts

### `npm t`

Starts running all the tests

### `npm run test:debug`

Starts testing with debugging enabled

### `npm run test -- <any_string>`

where `<any_string>` can be a part of filename, for example. Example: `npm run test -- canvas`. It will run tests in `ketcher-canvas.spec.ts`.

### `npm run test -- --update-snapshots`

Updates screenshots. Run only if you are sure, that functionality has been changed and screenshot is no longer valid.

### `npx playwright codegen <url>`

Starts a playwright codegen tool to simplify the script creation. Check the [codegen documentation](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen-intro)

## Name of folders in the project

Folders are named the same as structure in Jira

### Check for additional information on Playwright scripts here https://playwright.dev/docs/running-tests#command-line

### UTILS

To search some bond / atom testers can use next methods:

For atoms:

getAtomByIndex - get atom by attributes and index
getTopAtomByAttributes - get top atom by attributes
getRightAtomByAttributes - get right atom by attributes
getBottomAtomByAttributes - get bottom atom by attributes
getLeftAtomByAttributes - get left atom by attributes
getFirstAtomCoordinatesByAttributes - get one atom by attributes

For bonds:

getBondByIndex - get bond by attributes and index
getTopBondByAttributes - get top bond by attributes
getRightBondByAttributes - get right bond by attributes
getBottomBondByAttributes - get bottom bond by attributes
getLeftBondByAttributes - get left bond by attributes
getFirstBondCoordinatesByAttributes - get one bond by attributes

To select tools with nested / sub levels use:

selectNestedTool - select specific tool that has sub / nested levels.

## Docker

- Docker runs automatically in the pipeline after pushing changes to the repository.
- When you want to run tests in Docker on your computer, Docker should be run
- Docker allows creating snapshots independent of the operating system

### Prerequisites:

- **Docker Desktop**
  - How to install for Mac OS: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/
  - How to install for Windows: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/
  - How to install for Linux: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install/
- **Build Docker**:
  - Directory "ketcher-autotests": `npm run docker:build`
- **Set environment**:
  In the directory "ketcher-autotests" set .env variable
  - DOCKER=true
  - KETCHER_URL
    - Rc: KETCHER_URL=link_to_rc
    - Local frontend: KETCHER_URL=http://host.docker.internal:port (port where you run application)
  - OPTIONAL: IGNORE_UNSTABLE_TESTS=true (if you want to ignore unstable tests)
- **OPTIONAL: Build frontend**:
  if you want to run tests based on the localhost:4002, you can put KETCHER_URL=http://localhost:4002

### Run tests:

**OPTIONAL: Test Polymer Editor **:
If you want to run tests from Polymer Editor, add `ENABLE_POLYMER_EDITOR=true` in scripts:

- Root package.json: "build": "ENABLE_POLYMER_EDITOR=true npm run build -w example";

Also make sure, that test is not skipped! Check if test starts with
`test.skip('We test something', async ({ page }) => {`
Remove "skip" before running.

- **Run app in browser: from root directory "ketcher"**:

- `npm ci`
- `npm run build`
- `npm run serve`

- **Run docker**:

  - `cd ketcher-autotests`
  - `npm run docker:build`
  - `npm run docker:test`

### How to use?

1. Write a test and make sure, that it works on your local machine.
2. Run command npm run docker:test
3. Docker will generate a snapshot for Linux. Make `commit, push` your test and snapshot for Linux in the repository.  
   (snapshot for mac OS and windows will be ignored and won't be in GitHub)

### Commands

Run this command in the directory "ketcher-autotests"

- `npm run docker:test` run all tests
- `npm run docker:test file_name` run tests in a specific file
- `npm run report` show report
- `npm run docker:update` update all snapshots
- `npm run docker:update:test -- "test_title"` update only 1 snapshot with test_title

Commit message:

#3063 - Add e2e tests to Macromolecule editor (#3072)
- added e2e tests for rna builder and peptides addition on canvas

ketcher-autotests/README.md, after:

## Prerequisites

1. You should have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed on your machine. Download LTS (long-term support) release compatible with your OS.
2. You should have an IDE (eg. [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)) and its [extension for Playwright](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright) for convenience of running and debugging tests.
3. You should have [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed. Choose a proper instruction for your OS. You can use VSCode as a Git client or install another for convenience (eg. [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/), [GitExtensions](http://gitextensions.github.io/), etc.)
4. Generate an SSH key pair and add it to your GitLab profile, see [how to generate SSH](https://git.epam.com/help/user/ssh.md)

Now you're ready to clone the repository :tada:

## Cloning project and install dependencies

1. Go to a folder on your machine that you will use as your working directory.
2. Clone repository to your working directory using this guide [how to clone Git repo](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/#clone-and-open-in-visual-studio-code)
3. Open a terminal, go to your working directory and run `npm install`. This will install the dependencies from `package.json` file.
4. Possible you may need install browsers (f.ex. `npx playwright install chromium`)

# Add environment variables to your .env file

In order to run tests across different environments you need to create .env file.

You can use next command to create .env : `cp .env.example .env`
Or you can create it by hand and paste environment variables that are described in this PR [Environment variables] (https://git.epam.com/epm-lsop/ketcher-autotests/-/merge_requests/10)

## Scripts

### `npm t`

Starts running all the tests

### `npm run test:debug`

Starts testing with debugging enabled

### `npm run test -- <any_string>`

where `<any_string>` can be a part of filename, for example. Example: `npm run test -- canvas`. It will run tests in `ketcher-canvas.spec.ts`.

### `npm run test -- --update-snapshots`

Updates screenshots. Run only if you are sure, that functionality has been changed and screenshot is no longer valid.

### `npx playwright codegen <url>`

Starts a playwright codegen tool to simplify the script creation. Check the [codegen documentation](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen-intro)

## Name of folders in the project

Folders are named the same as structure in Jira

### Check for additional information on Playwright scripts here https://playwright.dev/docs/running-tests#command-line

### Writing tests

You can add _DeploySentinel Recorder_ https://www.deploysentinel.com/docs/recorder extension for Google Chrome. It allows to record user interactions in browser and generate playwright code.

### UTILS

To search some bond / atom testers can use next methods:

For atoms:

getAtomByIndex - get atom by attributes and index
getTopAtomByAttributes - get top atom by attributes
getRightAtomByAttributes - get right atom by attributes
getBottomAtomByAttributes - get bottom atom by attributes
getLeftAtomByAttributes - get left atom by attributes
getFirstAtomCoordinatesByAttributes - get one atom by attributes

For bonds:

getBondByIndex - get bond by attributes and index
getTopBondByAttributes - get top bond by attributes
getRightBondByAttributes - get right bond by attributes
getBottomBondByAttributes - get bottom bond by attributes
getLeftBondByAttributes - get left bond by attributes
getFirstBondCoordinatesByAttributes - get one bond by attributes

To select tools with nested / sub levels use:

selectNestedTool - select specific tool that has sub / nested levels.

## Docker

- Docker runs automatically in the pipeline after pushing changes to the repository.
- When you want to run tests in Docker on your computer, Docker should be run
- Docker allows creating snapshots independent of the operating system

### Prerequisites:

- **Docker Desktop**
  - How to install for Mac OS: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/
  - How to install for Windows: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/
  - How to install for Linux: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install/
- **Build Docker**:
  - Directory "ketcher-autotests": `npm run docker:build`
- **Set environment**:
  In the directory "ketcher-autotests" set .env variable
  - DOCKER=true
  - KETCHER_URL
    - Rc: KETCHER_URL=link_to_rc
    - Local frontend: KETCHER_URL=http://host.docker.internal:port (port where you run application)
  - OPTIONAL: IGNORE_UNSTABLE_TESTS=true (if you want to ignore unstable tests)
- **OPTIONAL: Build frontend**:
  if you want to run tests based on the localhost:4002, you can put KETCHER_URL=http://localhost:4002

### Run tests:

**OPTIONAL: Test Polymer Editor **:
If you want to run tests from Polymer Editor, add `ENABLE_POLYMER_EDITOR=true` in scripts:

- Root package.json: "build:example": "ENABLE_POLYMER_EDITOR=true npm run build -w example";

Also make sure, that test is not skipped! Check if test starts with
`test.skip('We test something', async ({ page }) => {`
Remove "skip" before running. Than add it back before push - we do not test Polymer Editor on ci/cd for now (will be changed in the future).

- **Run app in browser: from root directory "ketcher"**:

- `npm ci`
- `npm run build`
- `npm run serve`

- **Run docker**:

  - `cd ketcher-autotests`
  - `npm run docker:build`
  - `npm run docker:test`

### How to use?

1. Write a test and make sure, that it works on your local machine.
2. Run command npm run docker:test
3. Docker will generate a snapshot for Linux. Make `commit, push` your test and snapshot for Linux in the repository.  
   (snapshot for mac OS and windows will be ignored and won't be in GitHub)

### Commands

Run this command in the directory "ketcher-autotests"

- `npm run docker:test` run all tests
- `npm run docker:test file_name` run tests in a specific file
- `npm run report` show report
- `npm run docker:update` update all snapshots
- `npm run docker:update:test -- "test_title"` update only 1 snapshot with test_title
