README.md, before:

# Ketcher [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react) [![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Ketcher is an open-source web-based chemical structure editor incorporating high performance, good portability, light weight, and ability to easily integrate into a custom web-application. Ketcher is designed for chemists, laboratory scientists and technicians who draw structures and reactions.

## Key Features

- ⚡️ Fast 2D structure representation that satisfies common chemical drawing standards
- :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: 3D structure visualization
- :memo: Template library (including custom and user's templates)
- 🔩 Add atom and bond basic properties and query features, add aliases and Generic groups
- :cyclone: Stereochemistry support during editing, loading, and saving chemical structures
- :loop: Storing history of actions, with the ability to rollback to previous state
- :floppy_disk: Ability to load and save structures and reactions in MDL Molfile or RXN file format, InChI String, ChemAxon Extended SMILES, ChemAxon Extended CML file formats
- :microscope: Zoom in/out, hotkeys, cut/copy/paste
- :crystal_ball: OCR - ability to recognize structures at pictures (image files) and reproduce them
- :clipboard: Copy and paste between different chemical editors
- 🛠️ Settings support (Rendering, Displaying, Debugging)
- :camera: Use of SVG to achieve best quality in-browser chemical structure rendering

### Editor builtin tools:

- Atom Tool, Bond Tool, and Template Tool to draw and edit structures
- Aromatize/De-aromatize Tool
- Calculate CIP Descriptors Tool
- Structure Check Tool
- MW and Structure Parameters Calculate Tool
- Select, modify, and erase connected and unconnected atoms and bonds using Selection Tool, or using Shift key
- Advanced Structure Clean up Tool (+ stereochemistry checking and structure layout)
- Simple Structure Clean up Tool (checks bonds length, angles and spatial arrangement of atoms)
- Easy to use R-Group and S-Group tools (Generic, Multiple group, SRU polymer, peratom, Data S-Group)
- Reaction Tool (reaction generating, manual and automatic atom-to-atom mapping)
- Flip/Rotate Tool

## Installation and usage

At this moment Ketcher can be embedded into your application in two ways:

- as a [react component library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
- as ready-to-run application (to find desired version please look at Assets block of [releases](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/releases)). The application can be injected as IFrame or a separate page.

## FAQ

### How to use react component library

Look at the following [link](packages/ketcher-react/README.md) for details.

### Configure indigo service

You can find the instruction for service installation
[here](http://lifescience.opensource.epam.com/indigo/service/index.html).

## Packages

| Project                                                                                       | Status                                                                                                              | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ketcher-core](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-core)             | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-core.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-core)             | Core functionality: domain, shared services, functions and interface declarations |
| [ketcher-standalone](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-standalone) | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-standalone.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-standalone) | Contains only the functionality necessary to start Ketcher in standalone mode     |
| [ketcher-react](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-react)           | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-react.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)           | Package contains only the functionality necessary to define components.           |

## 3D Viewer

Ketcher uses Miew-React for viewing and editing data in 3D.

You can find the latest version of Miew-React [here](https://github.com/epam/miew/tree/master/packages/miew-react).
The last checked version - [1.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/miew-react).

## Contribution

See [Contributing Guide](./DEVNOTES.md).

## License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)

Please read [LICENSE](LICENSE) and [NOTICE](NOTICE) for details.

Copyright (c) 2021 [EPAM Systems, Inc.](https://www.epam.com/)

Commit message:

#2355 Add DisableQueryElements parameter to disable query elements from extended table (#2371)
* #2355 add DisableQueryElements parameter to disable query elements from extended table

* #2355 create separate component for buttom GenSet

* #2355 add import in less file

* #2355 add and update copyright

* #2355 update readme

* #2355 update readme.md

* #2355 update style accroding design

* #2355 fix issue to simplifying ButtonGenSet

* #2355 fix type in ButtonGenSet

---------

Co-authored-by: Konstantin Levin <yemsalat.me@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Ketcher [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react) [![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Ketcher is an open-source web-based chemical structure editor incorporating high performance, good portability, light weight, and ability to easily integrate into a custom web-application. Ketcher is designed for chemists, laboratory scientists and technicians who draw structures and reactions.

## Key Features

- ⚡️ Fast 2D structure representation that satisfies common chemical drawing standards
- :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: 3D structure visualization
- :memo: Template library (including custom and user's templates)
- 🔩 Add atom and bond basic properties and query features, add aliases and Generic groups
- :cyclone: Stereochemistry support during editing, loading, and saving chemical structures
- :loop: Storing history of actions, with the ability to rollback to previous state
- :floppy_disk: Ability to load and save structures and reactions in MDL Molfile or RXN file format, InChI String, ChemAxon Extended SMILES, ChemAxon Extended CML file formats
- :microscope: Zoom in/out, hotkeys, cut/copy/paste
- :crystal_ball: OCR - ability to recognize structures at pictures (image files) and reproduce them
- :clipboard: Copy and paste between different chemical editors
- 🛠️ Settings support (Rendering, Displaying, Debugging)
- :camera: Use of SVG to achieve best quality in-browser chemical structure rendering

### Editor builtin tools:

- Atom Tool, Bond Tool, and Template Tool to draw and edit structures
- Aromatize/De-aromatize Tool
- Calculate CIP Descriptors Tool
- Structure Check Tool
- MW and Structure Parameters Calculate Tool
- Select, modify, and erase connected and unconnected atoms and bonds using Selection Tool, or using Shift key
- Advanced Structure Clean up Tool (+ stereochemistry checking and structure layout)
- Simple Structure Clean up Tool (checks bonds length, angles and spatial arrangement of atoms)
- Easy to use R-Group and S-Group tools (Generic, Multiple group, SRU polymer, peratom, Data S-Group)
- Reaction Tool (reaction generating, manual and automatic atom-to-atom mapping)
- Flip/Rotate Tool

## Installation and usage

At this moment Ketcher can be embedded into your application in two ways:

- as a [react component library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
- as ready-to-run application (to find desired version please look at Assets block of [releases](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/releases)). The application can be injected as IFrame or a separate page.

## FAQ

### How to use react component library

Look at the following [link](packages/ketcher-react/README.md) for details.

### Configure indigo service

You can find the instruction for service installation
[here](http://lifescience.opensource.epam.com/indigo/service/index.html).

## Packages

| Project                                                                                       | Status                                                                                                              | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ketcher-core](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-core)             | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-core.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-core)             | Core functionality: domain, shared services, functions and interface declarations |
| [ketcher-standalone](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-standalone) | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-standalone.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-standalone) | Contains only the functionality necessary to start Ketcher in standalone mode     |
| [ketcher-react](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/tree/master/packages/ketcher-react)           | [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ketcher-react.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)           | Package contains only the functionality necessary to define components.           |

## 3D Viewer

Ketcher uses Miew-React for viewing and editing data in 3D.

You can find the latest version of Miew-React [here](https://github.com/epam/miew/tree/master/packages/miew-react).
The last checked version - [1.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/miew-react).

## Settings

You can add extra configuration in editor.setSetting

**Allowed parameters:**
- disableQueryElements: Disable the elements from the Extended Table
```js
ketcher.setSettings({ "disableQueryElements": ["Pol", "CYH", "CXH"] })
```

- general.dearomatize-on-load: Dearomatize the molecule when ketcher application starts
```js
ketcher.setSettings({ "general.dearomatize-on-load": true })
```

- ignoreChiralFlag: Ignore the chiral flag from .mol files
```js
ketcher.setSettings({ "ignoreChiralFlag": true })
```

## Contribution

See [Contributing Guide](./DEVNOTES.md).

## License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)

Please read [LICENSE](LICENSE) and [NOTICE](NOTICE) for details.

Copyright (c) 2021 [EPAM Systems, Inc.](https://www.epam.com/)
