packages/ketcher-react/README.md, before:

# ketcher-react

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Copyright (c) 2021 [EPAM Systems, Inc.](https://www.epam.com/)

Ketcher is an open-source web-based chemical structure editor incorporating high performance, good portability, light weight, and ability to easily integrate into a custom web-application. Ketcher is designed for chemists, laboratory scientists and technicians who draw structures and reactions.

For more details please look at the following [link](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/blob/master/README.md).

The ketcher-react package contains only the functionality necessary to define components. It is used together with [ketcher-core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-core) and optionally with [ketcher-standalone](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-standalone) if standaolone mode is required.

## Installation

The ketcher-react library is available as an [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) package. Install it either with NPM:

```sh
npm install --save ketcher-react
```

or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/):

```sh
yarn add ketcher-react
```

## Usage

```js
import { RemoteStructServiceProvider } from 'ketcher-core'

const structServiceProvider = new RemoteStructServiceProvider(
  process.env.REACT_APP_API_PATH!
)

const MyComponent = () => {
  return (
    <Editor
      staticResourcesUrl={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}
      structServiceProvider={structServiceProvider}
    />
  )
}
```

### Indigo Service

Ketcher uses Indigo Service for server operations.
You may pass it as a property while Editor component is used or just add api_path query parameter:

```sh
<Editor staticResourcesUrl={process.env.PUBLIC_URL} apiPath={link to Indigo service} />
    or
http://localhost:3000/?api_path={link to Indigo service}
```

You can find the instruction for service installation
[here](http://lifescience.opensource.epam.com/indigo/service/index.html).

### 3D Viewer

Ketcher uses Miew for viewing and editing data in 3D.
For use of this functionality you should add the link to miew by your own:

```js
...
import Miew from 'miew'
import 'miew/dist/Miew.min.css'
...
;(global as any).Miew = Miew
...
```

You can find the latest version of viewer [here](https://github.com/epam/miew).
The last checked version - [0.9.0](https://github.com/epam/miew/releases/tag/v0.9.0).

Commit message:

#1188 implement miew viewer with miew react (#1211)
* Update miew package to newest version

* Install miew-react and refactor MiewDialog with it

* convert Miew.jsx file to .tsx and add some types

* ts fix

* Remove ts ignore

* Pr fixes

* Remove unused styles

* Temporary style fixes for inner divs in Viewer

* PR fixes and refactor

* Remove miew package from example and refactor ref

packages/ketcher-react/README.md, after:

# ketcher-react

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ketcher-react)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-react)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Copyright (c) 2021 [EPAM Systems, Inc.](https://www.epam.com/)

Ketcher is an open-source web-based chemical structure editor incorporating high performance, good portability, light weight, and ability to easily integrate into a custom web-application. Ketcher is designed for chemists, laboratory scientists and technicians who draw structures and reactions.

For more details please look at the following [link](https://github.com/epam/ketcher/blob/master/README.md).

The ketcher-react package contains only the functionality necessary to define components. It is used together with [ketcher-core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-core) and optionally with [ketcher-standalone](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ketcher-standalone) if standaolone mode is required.

## Installation

The ketcher-react library is available as an [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) package. Install it either with NPM:

```sh
npm install --save ketcher-react
```

or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/):

```sh
yarn add ketcher-react
```

## Usage

```js
import { RemoteStructServiceProvider } from 'ketcher-core'

const structServiceProvider = new RemoteStructServiceProvider(
  process.env.REACT_APP_API_PATH!
)

const MyComponent = () => {
  return (
    <Editor
      staticResourcesUrl={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}
      structServiceProvider={structServiceProvider}
    />
  )
}
```

### Indigo Service

Ketcher uses Indigo Service for server operations.
You may pass it as a property while Editor component is used or just add api_path query parameter:

```sh
<Editor staticResourcesUrl={process.env.PUBLIC_URL} apiPath={link to Indigo service} />
    or
http://localhost:3000/?api_path={link to Indigo service}
```

You can find the instruction for service installation
[here](http://lifescience.opensource.epam.com/indigo/service/index.html).

### 3D Viewer

Ketcher uses Miew-React for viewing and editing data in 3D.
Miew-React package default exports Viewer component which
initializes and renders a Miew instance inside of it

```js
...
import Viewer from 'miew-react'

const MyComponent = () => {
  return <Viewer />
}
...
...
```

You can find the latest version of Miew-React [here](https://github.com/epam/miew/tree/master/packages/miew-react).
The last checked version - [1.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/miew-react).
